docs/source/tutorials/design_optimization.rst, before:

.. _design_optimization:

Design optimization
=========================================================

This section guides you through the process of optimizing the design of turbomachinery using TurboFlow. You will learn how to define optimization objectives, set constraints, and utilize the optimization algorithm to achieve the best design.
Design optimization is excecuted in two steps:

    1. Load configuration file.
    2. Compute optimal turbomachinery.

Illustrated by a code example:

.. code:: python

    import os
    import turboflow as tf
    

    CONFIG_FILE = os.path.abspath("my_configuration.yaml") # Get absolute path of configuration file
    config = tf.load_config(CONFIG_FILE) # Load configuration file 
    solver = tf.compute_optimal_turbine(config, export_results=True) # Compute optimal turbine

This page describes the main functionalities and options available when designing turbomachinery using turboflow:

    - :ref:`configuration_setup_optimization`
    - :ref:`compute_optimal_turbine`
    - :ref:`plotting_turbine`


.. _configuration_setup_optimization:

Configuration setup
--------------------
The configuration must be setup in a yaml file, where certain sections are required, while others are optional, meaning that a default value is provided. In the example below, the 
full configuration for design optimization is provided, where the required parts are marked with `# required` and the optional parts are marked with `# optional`. 

In summary, these section are required:

    - `turbomachinery` : specifies the turbomachinery configuration.
    - `operation_points`: specifies the design point. If a list is provided, the first point is used. 

The remaining input is optional. Here is an example of how the configuration file could look for a one-stage axial turbine:

.. code-block:: python

    turbomachinery: axial_turbine # Required
    operation_points: # Required
        fluid_name: air # Required
        T0_in: 295.6 # Required
        p0_in: 13.8e4 # Required
        p_out : 13.8e4/2.298 # Required
        omega: 1627 # Required
        alpha_in: 0 # Required

    simulation_options: # Optional
        deviation_model : aungier  # Optional
        choking_criterion : critical_mach_number # Optional
        rel_step_fd: 1e-4  # Optional
        loss_model:  # Optional
            model: benner  # Optional
            loss_coefficient: stagnation_pressure  # Optional
            inlet_displacement_thickness_height_ratio: 0.011  # Optional
            tuning_factors:  # Optional
                profile: 1.00  # Optional
                incidence: 1.00  # Optional
                secondary: 1.00  # Optional
                trailing: 1.00  # Optional
                clearance: 1.00  # Optional
    
    design_optimization: # Optional
        objective_function: # Optional
            variable : overall.efficiency_ts # Optional 
            scale : 10 # Optional
            type : maximize # Optional
        variables : # Optional
            specific_speed : # Optional
                value : 1.2  
                lower_bound : 0.01
                upper_bound : 10
            blade_jet_ratio : # Optional
                value : 0.5
                lower_bound : 0.1
                upper_bound : 0.9
            hub_tip_ratio_in : # Optional
                value : [0.6, 0.6]
                lower_bound : [0.6, 0.6]
                upper_bound : [0.9, 0.9]
            hub_tip_ratio_out : # Optional
                value : [0.6, 0.6]
                lower_bound : [0.6, 0.6]
                upper_bound : [0.9, 0.9]
            aspect_ratio : # Optional
                value : [1.5, 1.5]
                lower_bound : [1.0, 1.0]
                upper_bound : [2.0, 2.0]
            pitch_chord_ratio : # Optional
                value : [0.9, 0.9]
                lower_bound : [0.75, 0.75]
                upper_bound : [1.10, 1.10]
            trailing_edge_thickness_opening_ratio : # Optional
                value : [0.1, 0.1]
                lower_bound : [0.05, 0.05]
                upper_bound : [0.4, 0.4]
            leading_edge_angle : # Optional
                value : [0.41, 0.5]
                lower_bound : [0.41, 0.08]
                upper_bound : [0.92, 0.58]
            gauging_angle : # Optional
                value : [0.17, 0.94]
                lower_bound : [0.06, 0.72]
                upper_bound : [0.28, 0.94]
            v_in : # Optional
                value : 0.1
                lower_bound : 0.001
                upper_bound : 0.5
            w_out : # Optional
                value : [0.65, 0.65]
                lower_bound : [0.1, 0.1]
                upper_bound : [1.0, 1.0]
            s_out : # Optional
                value : [0.15, 0.15]
                lower_bound : [0.0, 0.0]
                upper_bound : [0.32, 0.32]
            beta_out : # Optional
                value : [0.83, 0.17]
                lower_bound : [0.72, 0.06]
                upper_bound : [0.94, 0.28]
            v_crit_in : # Optional
                value : [0.4, 0.4]
                lower_bound : [0.1, 0.1]
                upper_bound : [1.0, 1.0]
            beta_crit_throat : # Optional
                value : [0.83, 0.17]
                lower_bound : [0.72, 0.06]
                upper_bound : [0.94, 0.28]
            w_crit_throat : # Optional
                value : [0.65, 0.65]
                lower_bound : [0.1, 0.1]
                upper_bound : [1.0, 1.0]
            s_crit_throat : # Optional
                value : [0.15, 0.15]
                lower_bound : [0.0, 0.0]
                upper_bound : [0.32, 0.32]
            throat_location_fraction : # Optional 
                value : [1.0, 1.0]
                leading_edge_diameter :
                value : [2*0.127e-2, 2*0.081e-2]
            leading_edge_wedge_angle : # Optional
                value : [50.0, 50.0]
            tip_clearance : # Optional
                value : [0.00, 0.030e-2]
            cascade_type : # Optional
                value : ["stator", "rotor"]
        constraints : # Optional
            - variable : overall.mass_flow_rate  # Optional
              type : "="
              value : 2.5
              normalize : True 
            - variable : additional_constraints.interspace_area_ratio  # Optional
              type : "="
              value : 1
              normalize : True
        radius_type : "constant_mean" # Optional
        solver_options: # Optional
            library: scipy # Optional
            method: slsqp # Optional
            derivative_method: 2-point # Optional
            derivative_abs_step: 1e-6 # Optional
            print_convergence: True # Optional
            plot_convergence: True # Optional
            update_on: "gradient" # Optional
            options : # Optional
                tol: 1e-3 # Optional
                max_iter: 100 # Optional

The `design_optimization` section contains information on the objective function, constraints and design variables:

    - `objective_function`: defined by specifying variable, type and scale. 
    - `constraints`: each constraint is defined by specifying the variable name, type, value and if the constraint should be normalized or not. 
    - `variables`: set of variables required for design optimization. The variable is considered a design variable if bounds are provided. All variables have a default value, and some have defualt bounds. Note that velocities (`v` and `w`), entropies (`s`) and flow angles (`beta`) must be design variables. 

See :ref:`configuration_options_short` for more information regarding the available inputs. 

To load the configuration file, the absolute path must be provided to `turboflow.load_config`:

.. code-block:: python
    
    import os
    import turboflow as tf
    

    CONFIG_FILE = os.path.abspath("my_configuration.yaml") # Get absolute path of the configuration file
    config = tf.load_config(CONFIG_FILE) # Load configuration file 

.. note::

    The only current available option for turbomachinery is `axial_turbine`.

.. note::

    Velocities (`v` and `w`), entropies (`s`) and flow angles (`beta`) in the `variables` section must be provided with bounds (as design variables).

.. _compute_optimal_turbine:

Compute optimal turbine
--------------------------------------------
To compute the optimal turbine, simply provide the configuration file to the function `compute_optimal_turbine`:

.. code-block:: python

    import os
    import turboflow as tf
    

    CONFIG_FILE = os.path.abspath("my_configuration.yaml") # Get absolute path of the configuration file
    config = tf.load_config(CONFIG_FILE) # Load configuration file 
    solver = tf.compute_optimal_turbine(
        out_filename=None,
        out_dir="output",
        export_results=True,
    )

If `export_results` is set to True, the simulation data is exported as an Excel file. The file is saved either to a 
specified directory (`out_dir`) or to the default directory "output". The default filename (`out_filename`) is `design_optimization_{current_time}`, 
where current_time is a string formatted as `{year}{month}{day}{hour}{minute}_{second}`.

.. _plotting_turbine:

Plotting results
---------------------------------------------------

Plotting functions are provided to graphically illustrate the simulated data:

    - :ref:`plot_velocity_triangles`: `turboflow.plot_velocity_triangles`
    - :ref:`plot_axial_radial_plane`: `turboflow.plot_axial_radial_plane`

.. _plot_velocity_triangles:

Plot velocity triangles
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This function plots the velocity triangles at each plane of the turbomahcinery. The plot is initialized by providing the plane specific data
from the solution of optimization problem:

.. code-block:: python

    import os
    import turboflow as tf
    

    CONFIG_FILE = os.path.abspath("my_configuration.yaml") # Get absolute path of the configuration file
    config = tf.load_config(CONFIG_FILE) # Load configuration file 
    solver = tf.compute_optimal_turbine(
        out_filename=None,
        out_dir="output",
        export_results=True,
    ):
    
    fig, ax = tf.plot_functions.plot_velocity_triangles_planes(solver.problem.results["plane"])

Here is an example of how the velocity triangle plots looks:

.. image:: ../images/plot_velocity_triangles.png
    :scale: 15%


.. _plot_axial_radial_plane:

Plot axial-radial plane
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This function plots the geometry of an axial-turbine in the axial-radial plane. The plot is initialized by providing the geometry 
from the solution of the optimization problem:

.. code-block:: python

    import os
    import turboflow as tf
    

    CONFIG_FILE = os.path.abspath("my_configuration.yaml") # Get absolute path of the configuration file
    config = tf.load_config(CONFIG_FILE) # Load configuration file 
    solver = tf.compute_optimal_turbine(
        out_filename=None,
        out_dir="output",
        export_results=True,
    ):

    fig, ax = tf.plot_functions.plot_axial_radial_plane(solver.problem.geometry)

Here is an example of how the plot look:

.. image:: ../images/plot_axial_radial_plane.png
    :scale: 15%

Commit message:

limit scope to axial turbines

docs/source/tutorials/design_optimization.rst, after:

.. _design_optimization:

Design optimization
=========================================================

This section guides you through the process of optimizing the design of axial turbines using TurboFlow. You will learn how to define optimization objectives, set constraints, and utilize the optimization algorithm to achieve the best design.
Design optimization is excecuted in two steps:

    1. Load configuration file.
    2. Compute optimal turbine.

Illustrated by a code example:

.. code:: python

    import os
    import turboflow as tf
    

    CONFIG_FILE = os.path.abspath("my_configuration.yaml") # Get absolute path of configuration file
    config = tf.load_config(CONFIG_FILE) # Load configuration file 
    solver = tf.compute_optimal_turbine(config, export_results=True) # Compute optimal turbine

This page describes the main functionalities and options available when designing turbines using turboflow:

    - :ref:`configuration_setup_optimization`
    - :ref:`compute_optimal_turbine`
    - :ref:`plotting_turbine`


.. _configuration_setup_optimization:

Configuration setup
--------------------
The configuration must be setup in a yaml file, where certain sections are required, while others are optional, meaning that a default value is provided. In the example below, the 
full configuration for design optimization is provided, where the required parts are marked with `# required` and the optional parts are marked with `# optional`. 

In summary, these section are required:

    - `turbomachinery` : specifies the turbomachinery configuration.
    - `operation_points`: specifies the design point. If a list is provided, the first point is used. 

The remaining input is optional. Here is an example of how the configuration file could look for a one-stage axial turbine:

.. code-block:: python

    turbomachinery: axial_turbine # Required
    operation_points: # Required
        fluid_name: air # Required
        T0_in: 295.6 # Required
        p0_in: 13.8e4 # Required
        p_out : 13.8e4/2.298 # Required
        omega: 1627 # Required
        alpha_in: 0 # Required

    simulation_options: # Optional
        deviation_model : aungier  # Optional
        choking_criterion : critical_mach_number # Optional
        rel_step_fd: 1e-4  # Optional
        loss_model:  # Optional
            model: benner  # Optional
            loss_coefficient: stagnation_pressure  # Optional
            inlet_displacement_thickness_height_ratio: 0.011  # Optional
            tuning_factors:  # Optional
                profile: 1.00  # Optional
                incidence: 1.00  # Optional
                secondary: 1.00  # Optional
                trailing: 1.00  # Optional
                clearance: 1.00  # Optional
    
    design_optimization: # Optional
        objective_function: # Optional
            variable : overall.efficiency_ts # Optional 
            scale : 10 # Optional
            type : maximize # Optional
        variables : # Optional
            specific_speed : # Optional
                value : 1.2  
                lower_bound : 0.01
                upper_bound : 10
            blade_jet_ratio : # Optional
                value : 0.5
                lower_bound : 0.1
                upper_bound : 0.9
            hub_tip_ratio_in : # Optional
                value : [0.6, 0.6]
                lower_bound : [0.6, 0.6]
                upper_bound : [0.9, 0.9]
            hub_tip_ratio_out : # Optional
                value : [0.6, 0.6]
                lower_bound : [0.6, 0.6]
                upper_bound : [0.9, 0.9]
            aspect_ratio : # Optional
                value : [1.5, 1.5]
                lower_bound : [1.0, 1.0]
                upper_bound : [2.0, 2.0]
            pitch_chord_ratio : # Optional
                value : [0.9, 0.9]
                lower_bound : [0.75, 0.75]
                upper_bound : [1.10, 1.10]
            trailing_edge_thickness_opening_ratio : # Optional
                value : [0.1, 0.1]
                lower_bound : [0.05, 0.05]
                upper_bound : [0.4, 0.4]
            leading_edge_angle : # Optional
                value : [0.41, 0.5]
                lower_bound : [0.41, 0.08]
                upper_bound : [0.92, 0.58]
            gauging_angle : # Optional
                value : [0.17, 0.94]
                lower_bound : [0.06, 0.72]
                upper_bound : [0.28, 0.94]
            v_in : # Optional
                value : 0.1
                lower_bound : 0.001
                upper_bound : 0.5
            w_out : # Optional
                value : [0.65, 0.65]
                lower_bound : [0.1, 0.1]
                upper_bound : [1.0, 1.0]
            s_out : # Optional
                value : [0.15, 0.15]
                lower_bound : [0.0, 0.0]
                upper_bound : [0.32, 0.32]
            beta_out : # Optional
                value : [0.83, 0.17]
                lower_bound : [0.72, 0.06]
                upper_bound : [0.94, 0.28]
            v_crit_in : # Optional
                value : [0.4, 0.4]
                lower_bound : [0.1, 0.1]
                upper_bound : [1.0, 1.0]
            beta_crit_throat : # Optional
                value : [0.83, 0.17]
                lower_bound : [0.72, 0.06]
                upper_bound : [0.94, 0.28]
            w_crit_throat : # Optional
                value : [0.65, 0.65]
                lower_bound : [0.1, 0.1]
                upper_bound : [1.0, 1.0]
            s_crit_throat : # Optional
                value : [0.15, 0.15]
                lower_bound : [0.0, 0.0]
                upper_bound : [0.32, 0.32]
            throat_location_fraction : # Optional 
                value : [1.0, 1.0]
                leading_edge_diameter :
                value : [2*0.127e-2, 2*0.081e-2]
            leading_edge_wedge_angle : # Optional
                value : [50.0, 50.0]
            tip_clearance : # Optional
                value : [0.00, 0.030e-2]
            cascade_type : # Optional
                value : ["stator", "rotor"]
        constraints : # Optional
            - variable : overall.mass_flow_rate  # Optional
              type : "="
              value : 2.5
              normalize : True 
            - variable : additional_constraints.interspace_area_ratio  # Optional
              type : "="
              value : 1
              normalize : True
        radius_type : "constant_mean" # Optional
        solver_options: # Optional
            library: scipy # Optional
            method: slsqp # Optional
            derivative_method: 2-point # Optional
            derivative_abs_step: 1e-6 # Optional
            print_convergence: True # Optional
            plot_convergence: True # Optional
            update_on: "gradient" # Optional
            options : # Optional
                tol: 1e-3 # Optional
                max_iter: 100 # Optional

The `design_optimization` section contains information on the objective function, constraints and design variables:

    - `objective_function`: defined by specifying variable, type and scale. 
    - `constraints`: each constraint is defined by specifying the variable name, type, value and if the constraint should be normalized or not. 
    - `variables`: set of variables required for design optimization. The variable is considered a design variable if bounds are provided. All variables have a default value, and some have defualt bounds. Note that velocities (`v` and `w`), entropies (`s`) and flow angles (`beta`) must be design variables. 

See :ref:`configuration_options_short` for more information regarding the available inputs. 

To load the configuration file, the absolute path must be provided to `turboflow.load_config`:

.. code-block:: python
    
    import os
    import turboflow as tf
    

    CONFIG_FILE = os.path.abspath("my_configuration.yaml") # Get absolute path of the configuration file
    config = tf.load_config(CONFIG_FILE) # Load configuration file 

.. note::

    The only current available option for turbomachinery is `axial_turbine`.

.. note::

    Velocities (`v` and `w`), entropies (`s`) and flow angles (`beta`) in the `variables` section must be provided with bounds (as design variables).

.. _compute_optimal_turbine:

Compute optimal turbine
--------------------------------------------
To compute the optimal turbine, simply provide the configuration file to the function `compute_optimal_turbine`:

.. code-block:: python

    import os
    import turboflow as tf
    

    CONFIG_FILE = os.path.abspath("my_configuration.yaml") # Get absolute path of the configuration file
    config = tf.load_config(CONFIG_FILE) # Load configuration file 
    solver = tf.compute_optimal_turbine(
        out_filename=None,
        out_dir="output",
        export_results=True,
    )

If `export_results` is set to True, the simulation data is exported as an Excel file. The file is saved either to a 
specified directory (`out_dir`) or to the default directory "output". The default filename (`out_filename`) is `design_optimization_{current_time}`, 
where current_time is a string formatted as `{year}{month}{day}{hour}{minute}_{second}`.

.. _plotting_turbine:

Plotting results
---------------------------------------------------

Plotting functions are provided to graphically illustrate the simulated data:

    - :ref:`plot_velocity_triangles`: `turboflow.plot_velocity_triangles`
    - :ref:`plot_axial_radial_plane`: `turboflow.plot_axial_radial_plane`

.. _plot_velocity_triangles:

Plot velocity triangles
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This function plots the velocity triangles at each plane of the axial turbine. The plot is initialized by providing the plane specific data
from the solution of optimization problem:

.. code-block:: python

    import os
    import turboflow as tf
    

    CONFIG_FILE = os.path.abspath("my_configuration.yaml") # Get absolute path of the configuration file
    config = tf.load_config(CONFIG_FILE) # Load configuration file 
    solver = tf.compute_optimal_turbine(
        out_filename=None,
        out_dir="output",
        export_results=True,
    ):
    
    fig, ax = tf.plot_functions.plot_velocity_triangles_planes(solver.problem.results["plane"])

Here is an example of how the velocity triangle plots looks:

.. image:: ../images/plot_velocity_triangles.png
    :scale: 15%


.. _plot_axial_radial_plane:

Plot axial-radial plane
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This function plots the geometry of an axial-turbine in the axial-radial plane. The plot is initialized by providing the geometry 
from the solution of the optimization problem:

.. code-block:: python

    import os
    import turboflow as tf
    

    CONFIG_FILE = os.path.abspath("my_configuration.yaml") # Get absolute path of the configuration file
    config = tf.load_config(CONFIG_FILE) # Load configuration file 
    solver = tf.compute_optimal_turbine(
        out_filename=None,
        out_dir="output",
        export_results=True,
    ):

    fig, ax = tf.plot_functions.plot_axial_radial_plane(solver.problem.geometry)

Here is an example of how the plot look:

.. image:: ../images/plot_axial_radial_plane.png
    :scale: 15%
